[Music]
let's define critical thinking it's
thinking aimed at producing criticisms
what is critical thinking what critical
thinking is has often been defined in
complex ways by people involved in
education websites about critical
thinking often devote many many pages of
text in an attempt to unpack what
critical thinking is all about long
lists of verbs by conceptualizing
applying analyzing synthesizing and more
are supposed to capture what critical
thinking is these are a lot of words but
are UN clearer after reading them
educational institutions like the
International Baccalaureate office
similarly produce long lists of skills
like this in an attempt to clarify the
meaning but I think this obfuscates
rather than clarifies the real pearl of
simplicity that is at the heart of
critical thinking individual academics
engaged in education are no better than
institutions in this respect there has
recently been a flurry of articles
online discussing the importance of
critical thinking and Bologna its
apparent absence in public discourse but
when one denies that any clarification
or definition of the term is even
desirable or possible we should become
critical we should be critical that the
domain of Education Theory is offering
much at all to the conversation about
critical thinking so where should we
turn
we should turn to those who instead of
regarding critical thinking as the
latest education fad have actually been
engaged in the study of critical
thinking as it has been explained for
decades as part of the philosophy called
critical rationalism as explained by
Karl Popper
poppers ideas on what is now called
critical thinking is very close to the
common sense idea of what people
understand this term to mean because the
type of thinking we are interested in
here is critical for our shared
understanding of this term so what
better place to turn for that shared
understanding and a dictionary critical
adjective expressing or involving an
analysis of the merits and faults the
worker idea or having a decisive or
crucial importance in the success
failure for existence of something now
that first sense is the sense we should
mean when we refer to critical thinking
critical thinking will be something to
do with an analysis of the merits and
faults of a work or idea but critical
thinking is critical in the second sense
as well it's critical like it's
absolutely critical that you understand
this which is to say it's essential to
do this if you want to succeed this
common-sense idea and poppers critical
rationalism philosophy explained in his
numerous books written throughout the
20th century allow us to produce a very
parsimonious definition of critical
thinking
critical thinking thinking aimed at
producing criticisms that's it that's
all there is to it now given our
definition we can turn to strategies
that can work to enhance our ability to
produce effective criticisms we can
cleanly discriminate between other kinds
of thinking that can be just as valuable
in other areas and critical thinking
critical thinking the thinking aimed at
producing criticisms produces those
criticisms precisely because criticism
is the very means by which we are able
to separate out the true from the false
or the valuable from the worthless
they're useful from the useless critical
thinking it's about producing criticism
but how to produce criticism though some
strategies are known is ultimately a
creative act
it requires creative thinking but that
discussion we will leave now for another
time
[Music]
you